 Reverberations in the Digital Cathedral: An Autoethnographic Reflection on Content Governance
  When I think about my role in the content governance world, I find myself grappling with metaphors that could visualize my experiences. These experiences are multifaceted: an amalgam of the resilience and analytical power behind the responsibility of guarding the online world. Recently, I stumbled across the verb "reverberate" when describing the sensory overwhelm that accompanies this work. And this inspired a series of visuals to describe the experiences of working in online content policy, characterized by its sacred nature as a community relic. This work is housed in a metaphorical digital cathedral, one that highlights the human experience takes one through the human experience and requires the same value and reverence to navigate it. It is a paradoxical sanctuary that requires resilience, discretion, and policymaking.
   When I first walk into the office in the morning, I scan my badge, boot up my secure devices, and I'm transported to a different world. As soon as I begin my work, it feels like I've taken my first steps into a quiet, sacred hall. I can hear my shoes pattering down the aisles as the pews start appearing on my sides, filled with a faceless congregation facing the altar ahead. The brilliantly colored, stained-glass windows begin to form as I look up to the vaulted ceilings above me. An organ begins its resonant, haunting notes, startling me.  
This work environment transforms itself into a digital cathedral. Every online utterance reverberates against the ancient stones holding together this sacred space, amplifying until they fill the vast expanse. In this world of content governance, the digital space becomes a sacred space, a cathedral with hallowed halls and the echoes of countless voices. 
   The sacredness of this digital cathedral is rooted in its nature as a community relic. In this space, the work of content policy and governance is invisible. Its impact is perhaps known but rarely discussed. Like a cathedral’s solemn marble walls, its sculpted prophets in the shadows and dignified mosaic windows- many hands make up the digital labor sustaining online safety in this AI-driven world. The cathedral is a paradoxical sanctuary- one that offers no safety, as the very nature of content that passes those halls deny the peace that one might seek in a holy place.  
   That digital labor is no ordinary work. The content that a mere computer screen divides from this kind of laborer varies, highlighting the range of human experience. Developing policies to create digital safety and fairness, analyzing user behavior, documenting content strategies- these are not easy tasks. 
   The main feature of this cathedral, however, is the echo. It is what stands out to me the most. Every day, a person in this role is surrounded by "sensitive" content. What they encounter is sometimes from the darkest depths of the internet. They are exposed to the rampant cruelty and exploitation perpetrated by invisible faces, shielded by a screen. It feels insensitive and breeds both callousness and fragility.   
   Like these online harm perpetuators, I am also behind a screen. Except my task is to guard ethics and fairness in cyber space. The constant negativity in which I am immersed fills the cathedral- a loud, inescapable, and pervasive cacophony. Any disturbance in the organization, any ripple in team dynamics, or pressure in expectations, amplifies this echo. These reverberations are both visual, auditory, and emotional.  
   To me, this cathedral analogy encapsulates the sensory overload that comes with this territory in content governance. The words, voices, and stories that I encounter daily in the responsible AI space leave a relentless and fatiguing imprint that shape my thoughts and feelings, even long after I've left the office. There is no amount of "make sure to take care of yourself!" platitudes that would relieve this form of mental tinnitus. It is a ringing of discomfort and perturbance that details the things I've seen and heard, the people and beliefs I've realized exist in this world. This is the work- carrying the reverberating echoes of the digital world, required to hold them both closely and at a distance.  
   As I conclude this reflection, I think about how these responsibilities in the realm of content governance are often misunderstood and undervalued; yet they are crucial to the integrity of our digital communities and technological products. The iconography of digital laborers behind responsible AI is invisible, yet resilient. Visualizing the quiet sacredness of a cathedral speaks to the gravity of these experiences, the isolation and cognitive overload that comes with it. It’s a call to recognize the value of the work and the toll it takes on those who perform it.  
   The reverberating emotions and voices I am surrounded by are not just my own- they are the echoes of our online community. The cathedral does not offer sanctuary, but it does host a space for connection. The hope is that the echoes around me will become more harmonious, less negative, and even healing. At the end of my workday, I close my devices and quietly step away from the Cathedral, ready to go home- a shell of my normal self. It will require solitude, nourishment, and immense rest to recover from the hours before. The reverberations quieten overtime, but they never go away, because even when I am done for the day, I know that my visit begins again tomorrow. And thus, I understand that I am now forevermore at the door of that Cathedral. 
 

